Document "do not respond" noise type (#271)
ihmeuw/pseudopeople: docs/source/noise/row_noise.rst

Row-based noise operates on one row of data at a time, for example by omitting
or duplicating entire rows.

Do not respond
--------------

Sometimes people don't respond to a census or survey questionnaire and are
unable to be reached by other means such as telephone or personal visit. For the
Decennial Census and household surveys (ACS and CPS), people are found to
respond at different rates depending on demographics (e.g., age, sex,
race/ethnicity) and mode of contact (e.g., mail/online, telephone, personal

> visit). To simulate nonresponse bias in the Decennial Census and household

Reviewer: Is there any purpose to including "mode of contact" here? This was sort of part of a planned feature that we never ended up using. I think it would completely cover what we ended up including to say:

We assumed nonresponse in the Decennial Census was equal to the _net_ undercount (for the relevant demographic group), ignoring duplication. [cite PES estimates] We assumed nonresponse in the ACS was the same as in the Decennial Census, since these are conducted similarly. We assumed that CPS had the same nonresponse pattern as the Decennial Census, but with a constant 27.6% added to the nonresponse rates, since that was the nonresponse rate for CPS in July 2022. [cite BLS]

Author: I didn't know the details of what was implemented, I was just trying to describe it based on the concept model. I'll edit to use your description above.

Author: @zmbc Does that mean [this table](https://vivarium-research.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/concept_models/vivarium_census_synthdata/concept_model.html#id115) does **not** accurately describe what's happening in the sim?

And are you saying we did not use [the Jackson reference](https://vivarium-research.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models/concept_models/vivarium_census_synthdata/concept_model.html#household-surveys:~:text=This%20data%20is,for%20white%20people) at all?

Reviewer: Yeah, this is very confusing and I'd love to clean it up in the concept model someday. In the concept model we have documentation about "surveys in general," and then documentation about the two specific surveys. The table you linked is part of the former, and describes how to deal with different response modes.

However, for the two surveys we actually included:

* ACS has all response modes, so the "Probability of Non-Response (%)" column is always 0%
* CPS has contact modes in a different configuration, so we make an exception: "As this does not fit into the framework above, we will use the values for mail/online, telephone, and personal visits [which is all response modes, like ACS] and then apply an overall non-response rate of 27.6%."

So yes, we end up not doing anything that is based on the Jackson reference.

Author: Ok, thanks for the clarification. Yeah, that was not clear to me as I was reading it. I guess I should make a backlog ticket to make this clearer in the concept model...

surveys, the user can choose an overall rate of nonresponse, and pseudopeople

> will scale the nonresponse rates for different demographic subgroups to match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will scale the nonresponse rates for different demographic subgroups to approximate
```

Row-based noise operates on one row of data at a time, for example by omitting
or duplicating entire rows.

Types of row-based noise:

.. contents::
   :local:

Do not respond
--------------

Sometimes people don't respond to a census or survey questionnaire and are
unable to be reached by other means such as telephone or personal visit. For the
Decennial Census and household surveys such as the ACS and CPS, people are found
to respond at different rates depending on demographics such as age, sex, and
race or ethnicity.

For each demographic subgroup in pseudopeople, we assumed the nonresponse rate
in the Decennial Census was equal to the *net* rate of undercount (ignoring

> duplication) estimated in [Census_PES]_. Net undercount rates for age/sex were
> combined additively with rates for race/ethnicity, and demographic subgroups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
duplication) estimated in [Census_PES]_. Net undercount effects of age/sex were
combined additively with effects of race/ethnicity, and demographic subgroups
```

Is this too confusing? It's the difference, subgroup_undercount - overall_undercount, that gets calculated for each age/sex, and added to the same for race/ethnicity.

Author: Oh, thanks, I think this is better! I think it's more confusing to say "rates" since that's not exactly right.

with resulting net overcounts (negative nonresponse rates) were given a
nonresponse rate of 0. We assumed nonresponse in the ACS was the same as in the
Decennial Census, since these are conducted similarly. We assumed that CPS had
the same nonresponse pattern as the Decennial Census, but with a constant 27.6%

> added to the nonresponse rates, since that was the nonresponse rate for CPS in

Reviewer 2: we just added 27.6 to all rates?  i would have expected something more complicated.

Author: Yeah, it seems like maybe we should instead scale all the rates up by an appropriate factor to preserve the relative differences in rates instead of the absolute differences. Perhaps do something like this for a future enhancement? @zmbc any thoughts?

Author: Oh, I think Zeb said one way to think of this is that the differential response rates that we computed for the census are the "unexplained" effects due to demographics, and then for CPS, we're adding on a constant non-response rate that can be explained by the mode of the survey.

Author: I just added some wording to try to explain this.

race or ethnicity.

For each demographic subgroup in pseudopeople, we assumed the nonresponse rate
in the Decennial Census was equal to the *net* rate of undercount (ignoring
duplication) estimated in [Census_PES]_. Net undercount effects of age/sex were
combined additively with the effects of race/ethnicity, and demographic
subgroups with resulting net overcounts (negative nonresponse rates) were given
a nonresponse rate of 0. We assumed nonresponse in the ACS was the same as in
the Decennial Census, since these are conducted similarly. By contrast, the CPS
uses only phone calls and personal visits but not mail/online questionnaires, so
we assumed that CPS had the same nonresponse pattern as the Decennial Census,
but with a constant 27.6% added to the nonresponse rates due the different
contact mode for this survey, as that was the nonresponse rate for CPS in July
2022 reported by [Response_Rates_BLS]_.

To simulate nonresponse bias in the Decennial Census and the ACS or CPS, the
user can choose an overall rate of nonresponse, and pseudopeople will scale the
nonresponse rates for different demographic subgroups so that the overall

> average rate approximately matches the  target. The default overall rates were

Reviewer: ```suggestion
average rate approximately matches the target. The default overall rates were
```
